---
permalink: /
title: "Patrick Koopmann"
excerpt: "P"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am an assistant professor in the Knowledge in AI group at the Vrije
Universiteit Amsterdam. My research interests are in knowledge
representation, automated reasoning annd theoretical computer science,
more specifically on description logics and related logical
formalisms. I investigate ontology languages, as well as reasoning
problems for them, with applications in artificial intelligence in
mind.  

I studied computer science at the University of Hamburg and did my PhD
at The University of Manchester. Afterwards, I worked as postdoctocal
researcher at the University of Oxford as well as at the Technical
University of Dresden. 

Currently, one important research focus of mine is explainability: In particular,
how to explain results produced by a description logic reasoner. Why
was something derived? Why was something else not derived? How do I
have to fix my ontology/my data so that I get the expected result? In
order to approach these problems, I am investigating explanation
techniques such as proofs, counterinterpretations and abduction, both
from the perspective of theoretical computer science (decidability and
complexity) and from a practical perspective (how to implement
efficient and usable algorithms to produce these
explanations). To bring the developed techniques to the user, and
actually improve their ontology development experience, I am involved
in the development of graphical frontends of these algorithms, which
take the form of web applications and plugins for ontology editors.

Other research topics I am interested in are learning of concept
descriptions, ontology modularization and forgetting,
ontology-mediated query answering, probabilistic and temporal
extensions of description logics and query answering, as well as
integrations of ontologies into other formalisms such as automated
planning or probabilistic model checking. 

If you are a master student at the VU Amsterdam and want to write a
Bachelor or Master thesis with me, you can find a list of current
topics on this page. Don't be afraid to contact me by email.